
Today was Callum's BBQ he hosted in Narrabeen so his friends could wish him well on his travels with his Girlfriend Sophia. 
It really such a beautiful day - I loved every minute of it. It was one of those rare days where everything went well, and nothing went poorly. For example, Cole picked me up and we had an excellent car ride through the wakehurst parkway - there wasn't anything particularly special about the drive as such, but in that I was able to feel how close of a friend he is and I'm grateful for that. 
Everyone pulled their weight with bringing food, with Cal providing everything else. Jules is probably one of funniest guys I know, in the sense that when him and I are together we can continue a long string of jokes in a group that seems to make everyone laugh - we have a lot of inside jokes and it always makes me happy when we get the opportunity to share them together. 
I was surprised that everyone was so keen to juggle on the beach together. We were all so animated, and there was a lot of positive rhetoric around me being Brazilian and being good at juggling which made me feel really happy. It made ma proud to be Brazilian. 
I could continue, but I'll conclude by saying I have a wonderful group of friends.

Today I relearned that I have beautiful people in my life that I can trust. Honorable mentions go out to Crispin and Jaz for their support in my recent breakup. 

I'm looking forward to going to the gym this week, looking for new jobs, talking to/seeing my Dad and working on organising my "second brain".

So I haven't documented this yet, but I went through what was effectively a breakup this week. I say that because while we weren't expressly "dating", we had all the exclusivity of a relationship. I may document it properly at some point, but all I can right now is I feel sad and alone. A big part of me wants to keep seeing her, but I know that isn't the best for me. I wish her the best and hope she finds what you're looking for. 









