---

---

The hardest part about this is actually determining what goes into the product backlog is actually worth building for your users.


The Right Process.

3 patterns for successful products:

1. Tackle risks up front
2. Define products collaboratively rather than sequentially. Each member of the team is involved each step fo the process. Design AND engineering. Each person brings a different lens
3. Solve business problems, don’t just implement features.

Have a holistic definition of product. You must be continuously engaging in discovery and delivery. The two main pillars here are discovering the product to be build and delivering that product to market. The is to make the timeframe on this process as short and effective as possible.

Product managers must be able to answer these questions:

4. Will the user buy this or choose to use this?
5. Can they figure out how to use this?
6. Can our engineers build this?
7. Can our stakeholders support this?

Strong product teams are testing in the realm of 10-20 product ideas every week.

**Roadmaps:**

Definition: a prioritised list of products and features.

Good teams are asked to deliver business results. Bad teams are asked to deliver output.

Output oriented product roadmaps are responsible for a lot of the waster and failed effort in product organisation.

The caveat is that having a roadmap is reasonable. It’s purpose is two-fold for the executives:

8. They want to make sure you’re working on the highest value/priority thing first
9. They are running a business which means they need to be able to plan & known when key capabilities will be able available so they can coordinate with other stake holders (sales, marketing)

Inconvenient truths about product:

10. Half of our product ideass are not going to work
11. It typically takes several iterations of an idea to get to the point of execution where it delivers the expected business value that amanegement was hoping for

There is no escaping these, but the difference between mediocre and great product teams is how these truths are acknowledged and dealt with.

Great product teams know how to iterate fast to find effective solutions. Product discovery is at the heart of fast iteration.

**Outome based roadmaps:**

Outcome based roadmaps depend on having people in the teams who have the necessary business context, the have a sound understanding of where the company is heading and how their team wil contribute to the larger purpose. This is autonomy.

In order for people to have autonomy, they need business context. What does business content look like? It looks like these two things:

Business context:

12. Product Vision & Strategy
- The bigger pictures of what the organisation is trying to accomplish
13. Business objectives
- What needs to be accomplished and how these accomplishments will be measures

^ Through this, autonomy is achieved teams are able to figure out the best way to solves business problems for themselves.

- This^ motivates teams to work because they are free to solve problems as they see fit. It makes them feel like they are directly contributing to the larger cause.
- Second, because they are tasked with solving a business problem, the team isnt off the hook until the problem is solved. If they fail, they must come up with another solution.

Outcome roadmaps shortcomings:

The catch 22 here is that without deadlines, the could be a tendency for managers to put deadlines on every outcome. There is a lot of grief that comes with makeing lots of time-based commitments - they should be made sparingly.

Time based commitments should be made like this:

- Teams should ask exectives for mor time to validate the solution with customers to ensure usability, value, feasibility and viability.
- After this, teams can make high integrity commitments of time to completion

**Product Vision:**

Key principles:

14. Be massively purposeful.
15. Fall in love with the problem, not the solution.
16. Be ambitious - its not something you can achieve in 6 months.
17. Disrupt yourself, or someone else will.
18. Embrace relevant & meaningful trends
19. Hire people who will drink the Kool Aid.
20. Evangelise continuously. Never stop.

**Product Strategy:**

Empowered product teams are all about being given hard problems to solve, and the space to solve them. Product strategy is all about deciding *which* problems to solve.

*A prioritised list of features that will contribute to solving your customer’s problems.*

It’s important to obsess over your customers, not your compretitors. Don’t chase the products of your competitors, rather focus on being extremely valuable to your customers.

*“Customers rarely leave us for our competitors. They leave when we stop caring about them. So long as we’re providing them with value, they won’t leave. A product has to be substantially better than ours for customers to leave.”*

*Bad strategy is the active avoidance of the hard work of crafting a good strategy. Bad strategy is the consequence of being unable to make choices.*

*How do we make the product vision a reality, while meeting the needs of the company as we go?*

Product strategy is difficult because:

21. You must be willing to make tough *choices* on what is really important
22. You need to generate, identify and leverage *insights*
23. You must be able to convert insights into *action*
24. You must be able to *actively manage* without resorting to *micromanagement*

Insights come from analyzing data and learning from our customers. These insights pertain to the dynamics of our business, our capabilities, new enabling technologies, the competitive landscape, how the market is evolving, or our customers.

There are 4 principles of product strategy:

25. Focus

*The main thing is to keep the main thing, the main thing*

The number of critically important things to focus on is 2-3, not 10-20.

Do not employ the ‘stakeholder driven roadmap process: “fairly” dividing up the engineering process across the different business stakeholders.

“We could, but no”: While many things could be improved (the entire code base, e.g. the vast majority of this effort would not matter in the least to our customers - you must pick the battles correctly by focusing on the few truly critical problems, otherwise the work you do will not make an impact.

Focus on a small amount of objectives whose accomplishments will lead to a cascade of favorable outcomes

26. Insights

Insights can come from anyone or anywhere. Inspiration may come from industry analysis, a chat with a sales person, a new enabling technology, a seemingly random comment from a customer, or an academic paper.

Quantitative Insights:

- Big insights that form the foundation of successful product strategies come from an analysis of the product data. By product data, we mean from the business model, the acquisition funnel, the customer retention factors, sales execution data etc.
- Often you will get an idea about the data, and you’ll have to construct a test to obtain the specific data you need. The sooner your organization gets good at conducting live data tests, the better the chances of long lasting success.

Qualitative Insights:

- There are two types:
    - Evaluative: *What did we learn from testing out this new product idea?*
    - Generative: *Did we uncover any new opportunities that we aren’t pursuing, that maybe we should.*
- We have lots of product ideas. We test those ideas with prototypes on actual users. This way we can learn quite quickly the major reasons as to why this product idea may or may not work.

Technology insights:

- It is usually empowered engineers that are often able to identify these enabling technologies and proactively bring the possibilities to the leaders, usually in the form of a prototype.

Industry Insights:

- Finding a small firm or individual who is interested in a long-term engagement with your company to deliver long term insights may be useful. Big outfits are usually too expensive.
27. Actions
28. Management

**Product Principles:**

- They are guiding lights that help you navigate executing your product strategy
- When there are conflicts of interest in your execution, you look to your product principles to determine the most appropriate choice to make

Recap: PV is what you are setting out to achieve over 2-5 years. PS is a series of products that help you get to the vision. PP is a set of guiding lights that help you best execute your PS to get to the PV.

**OKR:**

OKR stands for Objectives and Key Results. They are an industry standard for quantifying progress and realizing you have solved real business problems for your startup.

Objectives are qualitative; they speak to the real business problems that need to be solved.

Key results are quantitative; they are metrics that you have (or haven’t) solved the business problem.

OKRs will be set for a 3 month timeframe. Product teams will have 3 months to deliver a business outcome.

There is a handy scoring system to determine the effectiveness of the OKR outcome. It is called the 0-1 scale:

- 0: you made no progress
- 0.3: You achieved the bare minimum
- 0.7: You have accomplished more than the minimum and have really done what you hoped to achieve
- 1.0: You have surprised yourselves and other in the organisation with a truly exceptional business outcome beyond what anyone was hoping for.

**Product Evangelism:**

What you’re really doing is selling the dream; making your team drink the proverbial Kool Aid. This is probably one of the most important roles of a startup founder.

These are the key principles of successful product evangelism:

29. Share the pain of customers
30. Share the vision continuously
31. Share learnings generously
32. Learn how to give a great demo
33. Do your homework. Be the undisputed authority in your startup.
34. Be genuinely excited
35. Spend time with your team physically.

**Hypothesis Testing:**

Product owners must subdivide users into classes based on their relationship with the product:

36. Unregistered users
37. Registered (trial) users
38. Users who have paid for the premium service

Split testing is one of the best industry practices for learning about customers

*The three A’s of metrics:*

39. Actionable
- Metrics must display clear cause and effect, otherwise they are vanity metrics
40. Accessible
- *“Metrics are people too”*
- Make reports as simple as possible so **everyone** understands them.
- *Cohort-based reports* are the gold standard - the turn complex datasets into people-based reports
- Automatically generate a daily report containing the latest data for every split test experiment and leap of faith metric. Mail it to everyone everyday
41. Auditable
- Spot check the data with real customers
- Ensure data credibility by talking to customers in the real world

***“Pivot or Persevere”***

*Are we making sufficient progress to believe that our original strategic hypothesis is correct, or do we need to make a major change?*

A pivot is a course correction that moves towards testing a new hypothesis about the product, strategy or engine of growth.

*There is no bigger destroyer of creative potential than the misguided decision to persevere*

The sooner as a startup is able to employ innovation accounting, hypothesis testing and actionable metrics, the easier it is to see failure and make a pivot.

Look for recurring feedback you get from customers

Each successive MVP should be created and validated in a shorter timeframe

Runway:

A startup’s runway can be determined by the amount of pivots they will be able to make; the number of opportunities it has left to change its fundamental business strategy

You can extend a runway in two ways:

42. Cut costs
43. Raise funds

“If the cost cuts result in a slowdown of the feedback loop, all they have accomplished is to help the startup die more slowly”

If founders are able to judge the remaining timeline their startup has on the amount of pivots they make rather than time, they have a new outlook: *get to each pivot faster*.

Pivots are inevitable. Products never work the first time around.

The courage to pivot:

Fact: Most entrepreneurs are afraid

The fear creates resistance around building MVPs, split-testing, hypotheses testing because these test all have necessary potential outcome of failure.

This is a catch 22: The fear to test that may result in failure will result in failure anyway because time will run out for your company.

Fail often and fail publicly

Have Pivot or Persever meetings every 2 months.

Low quality MVP to Mainstream product:

Low quality MVP rationale: building anything beyond what early adopters need is a form of waste. However, After seeing success with early adopters, you must sell to mainstream customer which means higher standards and more demands.

- In this scenario, a *customer segment pivot* is required. Your product solves a problem for real customers but not the problem it originally planned to serve

Types of pivots:

44. Zoom-in pivot
45. Zoom-out pivot
46. Customer segment pivot
47. Customer need pivot
48. Platform pivot
49. Business architecture pivot
50. Value capture pivot
51. Engine of growth pivot
52. Channel pivot
53. Technology pivot

Pivot Hypotheses:

- Whilst running your existing product, build an MVP that tests yout pivot hypothesis. If it proves successful, run it.

**Innovation Accounting:**

*The myth of perseverance is so dangerous because we want to keep believing in our ideas even when the writing is on the wall*

A startup has two jobs:

54. Measure where it is right now through assessment and confront those hard truths
55. Devise experiments to learn how to move close to the numbers pitched to investors and in the business plan

*Startups are too unpredictable for forecast and milestones to be accurate*

Innovation accounting is a progress technique that enables startups to prove objectively that they are learning how to grow a sustainable business. It begins by turning LOF assumptions into a quantitative financial model

The three learning milestones of innovation accounting:

56. Use an MVP to establish a baseline (data) on where the company is right nopw
57. Tune your engine of growth from baseline towards that ideal
58. Pivot or Persevere

Establishing a baseline:

This is done through launching an MVP to early adopters. Its purpose is to test all of the startup’s assumptions and establish baseline metrics for each assumption simultaneously. MVPs are a startup’s first tangible example of a learning milestone - it allows you to establish metrics like conversion rates, sign up/trial rates, customer LTV as baseline data. Test the riskiest assumptions first.

Tuning the engine:

This really about outcome versus output. There is no point embarking on any initiative (sales, marketing, design) if it doesn’t aim to contribute to improving the baseline metrics of growth. For example, if a startup launches an objective to “spend time improving design of the product to make it easier for new customer to use the product”, then the startup needs to be able to demonstrably prove the outpur of design contributed to the outcome of an easier to use product. To prove this, they would demonstrate validate learning through showing the designs improved the activation rate of new customers. If they cant, the objective was a failure.

Pivot or Persevere:

When metrics are not moving towards the ideal, consider a pivot.

Cohort Analysis

One of the most important tools for startup analytics is looking at the performance different groups of customers that come contact with the product independently.

Different groups:

- *Registered but didn’t log in*
- *Logged in*
- *Had one conversation*
- Had five conversations
- *Paid*

These metrics allow us to understand the business quantitatively and have much more predictive power than traditional gross metrics

A nod to optimisation & AB testing:

*If you are building the wrong thing, optimising the product is pointless*

*Only 5% of entrepreneurship is the big idea, the business model, the whiteboard strategising and the splitting up of the spoils. The other 95% is the gritty work that is measure by innovation accounting: product prioritisation decisions, deciding which customers to target or listen to, and having the courage to subject a grand vision to constant testing and feedback.*

**Kanban:**

Kanban is a process technique that constrains the capacity of features being worked on in a startup

Layout:

| Backlog | In Progress | Built | Validated |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|   | G | D | F |
| H -> | B-> | E |   |
| I -> | C-> | A |   |

- F is validated
- B and C have been built, but under Kanban cannot be moved to the next column until A, D & E have been validated
- Work cannot begin on the new features H & I until there is space in the “in progress” column.

Rules:

59. Only three features per column
60. Features cannot progress if the next column is full
61. When a feature is validated, it is removed from the board
62. If validation fails, the feature is removed from the product
63. Validation definition: “Should the feature have been done in the first place?”

Engineers must engage in ‘non-engineering efforts’ to establish the validity of the features they build.

**Cohort & Split Test:**

Two more ways that startups can evaluate success:

64. Cohort based-metrics
65. Split test experiments

These allow founders to make more informed inferences by observing behaviour changes in different groups of customers. These inferences help us to determine what the customer wants.

Split test require extra accounting of metrics to keep track of the variations, but in the long run they save time by eliminating work that doesn’t matter.


**Concierge test technique:**

essentially the product manager is doing the job of the customer manually and personally you do what needs to be done for the customer