---

---

The Right Culture.

The problem is that many teams don’t feel like the features and projects they're working on are value; there isn’t a sense of contributing to the larger company vision, or the they don’t resonate or even know about the company vision.

Because of this, there is a lack of sense of purposefula autonomy within the rolex. Team members may be allowed to be left to their own devices, but if they don’t feel like they align with the company vision, their output won’t be meaningful.

How you define the roles in your product ream and the people you select to be in them will very likely prove to be the determining factor in the success or failure of your startup. This is maybe the most important note in the entire handbook. Hire well. Hire people better than you. With more experience, with different approaches.

Strong product culture litmus test:

1. The team consists of a group of people with different specialised skills and responsibilities
2. Team members feel real ownership of the their product OR feel like they are substantially a piece of a larger product

Missionaries vs Mercenaries

| Missionaries | Mercenaries |
| --- | --- |
| Are true believers in the vision |   |
| Are committed to solving problems for their customers |   |
| The team acts and feels like a startup with iterative principles |   |

Empowerment and accountability:

Empowered product teams are committed to solving real business problems. They are given clear objectives by the executives and they feel accountable on delivering on those objectives.

They are given the autonomy to find the best to solve the business problems using the most modern technology available.

Its important to note that a strong product team is flat in its hierarchical structure. It should be clear that the product manager is NOT the boss of anyone in the product team. Its important to note that dependencies between teams will always exists, but we should try and keep these to a minimum.

Team size:

- *See two pizza rule*

Physical team alignment:

You will notice that their is an indescribable feeling of synergy when a product team physically sits next to each other while they’re working on the product. Not only are team members able to feed directly into each other’s work, but they will inevitably build personal relationships with one another that will increase empowerment, trust and autonomy within the team.

**Product Culture:**

Being great at product is fundamentally about culture. There are some dimensions to this:

3. Can the company consistently innovate to come up with valuable solutions for their customers (product discovery)
4. Execution - it doesnt matter how good your ideas are if you can get a productised shippable version delivered to your customers (product delivery)

So what does it really mean to have a strong innovation? Culture? Well, lots of things,

a culture of experimentation. teams know they can run test, some will succeed and many will fail and this is acceptable and understood.

A culture of open open minds. teams know that good ideas can come from anywhere and aren't always obvious at the outset.

A culture of empowerment, individuals and teams feel empowered to be able to try out an idea, a culture of technology, teams realise that true innovation can be inspired by new technology and the analysis of data as well as customers.

The culture of business and customer savvy teams, teams, including developers have a deep understanding of the business needs and constraints and understanding the users and customers.

The culture of skill set and staff diversity teams appreciate the different skills and backgrounds contribute to innovative solutions, especially engineering design and product,

a culture of discovery techniques, mechanisms that are in place for ideas to be tested quickly and safely, while still protecting brand revenue concerns customers and colleagues.

So what does it really mean to have a strong execution culture? Well, that's really

a culture of urgency. People feel like they're in wartime, and that if they don't find a way to move fast, then bad things could happen.

A culture of high integrity commitments, teams understand the need for commitments they also insist on high integrity commitments,

a culture of empowerment, teams feel as though they have the tools resources permission to do whatever is necessary to meet their commitments.

The culture of accountability, people in teams feel a deep responsibility to meet their commitments. Accountability also implies consequences, not necessarily being terminated, accepting extreme and repeated situations, but more likely consequence to the reputation among their peers.

So they're also a culture of collaboration. While Team autonomy and empowerment is important teams understand they're even higher need to work together to accomplish many of the bigger and most meaningful objectives.

It's a culture of results. Is the focus on output or is the focus on results.

Culture of recognition, teams often take their cues from what is rewarded and what is accepted. Is it just a team that comes up with a new great idea that gets rewarded or the team that delivered on a brutally tough commitment? And what is the message if it missing if a commitment is seen as easily excusable?

One of the big questions then is does a strong execution culture lead to a stressful workplace and do innovation cultures and execution cultures? Common odds of each other so most companies are most companies that are X have exceptionally strong execution and pretty tough places to work. Only a few companies are strong at both innovation and execution.

ONLY A FEW COMPANIES ARE STRONG IN INNOVATION AND EXECUTION. BE BOTH. THIS IS FUNDAMENTALLY WHAT MAKES A GOOD STARTUP.