---

---

Embracing New Technology:

*“Disrupt your own company, or someone else will.”*

Generative AI

The future of AI and its impact on tech, startups, culture and the future of work.

If you have an existing startup, then you should reasonably believe that you’re solving a real problem in the world.

That question is, “how can AI accelerate the solution for the problem we’re solving?”

“How do we add AI as an ingredient, or rethink our product strategy with AI first or AI native to solve the problem in a better, cheaper, faster, more delightful way”

Let go of domain dogma... go back to first principles thinking, go to blank piece of paper, forget hypotheses and UX that involves legacy thinking.

Brand will become a much higher priority with the mainstream adoption of AI. Personal brand audience will increase in value. Build a brand so you can future proof yourself.

AI is the first technology that replaces knowledge work and creatives. A marketing team of 10 people could easily have their work done by 3 people plus the help of AI.

Universal basic income is a proposed solution to the reshuffling of the deck that AI will stimulate in global employment.

Fun fact: A recent report showed that the last job that will be automated is a plumber.

AI classification framework:

- 7 types of intelligence
- Each of those have a 0-5 scale
    - 4 is master (top 0.1% of human)
    - 5 is super intelligence (more intelligent than the best human)
- Can the tool engage with these intelligence?
- The implicit expectation is these AI tools will reach mastery (5) over time
- There will be a tool for each type of these intelligences
- right now, most tools score 1-2.

